README.md, before:

# boilerplate-gemini-golang
This is a boilerplate for starting to create applications with the Gemini LLM (by Google).

## How to Use
First:
1. Rename the **.env.example** file to **.env**.
2. Open the newly renamed **.env** file and add your **GEMINI_API_KEY**.
3. You can obtain your API key [here](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).

With this done, we can continue 😎

You have to add your own prompt in the **prompts** folder. Let's add "**my_custom_prompt.go**". 


```sh
prompts
├── my_custom_prompt.go
├── personal_assistant.go
├── python_interpreter.go
└── talk_file.go
```

Now our **prompts** folder contains these files.

Important: `prompts/my_custom_prompt.go` must contain a prompt template and a function that receives the prompt written by the user and converts it to useful instructions for the LLM.

This is a basic example, so we will receive the answer just in Markdown.

**prompts/my_custom_prompt.go**
```go
// prompts/my_custom_prompt.go
package prompts

import (
	"app/gemini"
	"fmt"
)

var YOUR_OWN_PROMPT_TEMPLATE = `Context: %s
User Prompt: %s

[YOUR_RESPONSE_HERE]`

// var YOUR_OWN_PROMPT = `HERE YOUR OWN PROMPT (JSON, MARKDOWN, YAML, ...)`

func YourOwnHandler(userPrompt string) string {
	return fmt.Sprintf(YOUR_OWN_PROMPT_TEMPLATE, gemini.BuildHistory(), userPrompt)
}
```

## Adapt main.go
Now that we have "**YourOwnHandler**", we must use it in our **main.go**, line 16.

```go
// main.go
package main

import (
	"app/gemini"
	"app/prompts"
	"fmt"
	"log"
)

func main() {
	if err := loadEnv("./.env"); err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	for {
		userPrompt := readPrompt("Prompt: ")
		prompt := prompts.YourOwnHandler(userPrompt)
		jsonMode := true
		response, err := gemini.Request(prompt)
		if err != nil {
			fmt.Println("Error gemini request:", err)
			continue
		}
		gemini.AddMessage(prompt)
		processResponse(response, jsonMode)
	}
}
```

## Explaining utilities
The Gemini package includes 2 functions for managing the history (memory):

- AddMessage: If you want the LLM to remember something that you wrote, you must use this function after the request was validated:
```go
gemini.AddMessage(message)
```
- AddResponse: If you want the LLM to remember something that it answered in the past, you must use:
```go
gemini.AddResponse(response)
```

_Note: AddMessage and AddResponse are used by default, so the LLM has "memory". The memory is limited to 100 messages, but you can modify this limit in history.go (MAX_MEMORY)._

## It's your turn!
Start building an app with LLM now ❤️

Commit message:

Add validations on process_response.go and add more information to README.md

README.md, after:

# boilerplate-gemini-golang
This is a boilerplate for starting to create applications with the Gemini LLM (by Google).

## How to Use
First:
1. Rename the **.env.example** file to **.env**.
2. Open the newly renamed **.env** file and add your **GEMINI_API_KEY**.
3. You can obtain your API key [here](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).

With this done, we can continue 😎

You have to add your own prompt in the **prompts** folder. Let's add "**my_custom_prompt.go**". 


```sh
prompts
├── my_custom_prompt.go
├── personal_assistant.go
├── python_interpreter.go
└── talk_file.go
```

Now our **prompts** folder contains these files.

Important: `prompts/my_custom_prompt.go` must contain a prompt template and a function that receives the prompt written by the user and converts it to useful instructions for the LLM.

This is a basic example, so we will receive the answer just in Markdown.

**prompts/my_custom_prompt.go**
```go
// prompts/my_custom_prompt.go
package prompts

import (
	"app/gemini"
	"fmt"
)

var YOUR_OWN_PROMPT_TEMPLATE = `Context: %s
User Prompt: %s

[YOUR_RESPONSE_HERE]`

// var YOUR_OWN_PROMPT = `HERE YOUR OWN PROMPT (JSON, MARKDOWN, YAML, ...)`

func YourOwnHandler(userPrompt string) string {
	return fmt.Sprintf(YOUR_OWN_PROMPT_TEMPLATE, gemini.BuildHistory(), userPrompt)
}
```

## Adapt main.go
Now that we have "**YourOwnHandler**", we must use it in our **main.go**, line 16.

```go
// main.go
package main

import (
	"app/gemini"
	"app/prompts"
	"fmt"
	"log"
)

func main() {
	if err := loadEnv("./.env"); err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	for {
		userPrompt := readPrompt("Prompt: ")
		prompt := prompts.YourOwnHandler(userPrompt)
		jsonMode := true
		response, err := gemini.Request(prompt)
		if err != nil {
			fmt.Println("Error gemini request:", err)
			continue
		}
		gemini.AddMessage(prompt)
		processResponse(response, jsonMode)
	}
}
```

## Explaining utilities
The Gemini package includes 2 functions for managing the history (memory):

- AddMessage: If you want the LLM to remember something that you wrote, you must use this function after the request was validated:
```go
gemini.AddMessage(message)
```
- AddResponse: If you want the LLM to remember something that it answered in the past, you must use:
```go
gemini.AddResponse(response)
```
- **processResponse**: When the LLM responds with a JSON object, set the second parameter to `true` to enable `jsonMode`. This ensures that the function processes the response as JSON. For example:
```go
processResponse(response, true)
```
The function will then look for the "result" key in the JSON returned by the LLM.

If the LLM's response is in Markdown format, set the second parameter to `false`.

If you're using a custom JSON structure, make sure to update the `parseResponse` function and adjust the struct accordingly to correctly handle the response.

_Note: AddMessage and AddResponse are used by default, so the LLM has "memory". The memory is limited to 100 messages, but you can modify this limit in history.go (MAX_MEMORY)._

## It's your turn!
Start building an app with LLM now ❤️
